We'll implement it cuz it's so
exciting, I really think it's exciting.
I think this is a good exercise to
go over, so again, open this up,
search crystal balls, there we go.
And so I'm gonna pass in
the breaks array boolean and
you're gonna return back out
the index into this array.
So remember, just like our algorithm, we
want to jump by the square root of N, and
so how do we do that?
Well, it's pretty straightforward.
Constant jump, amount will equal
math.sqrt (breaks,length), right?
But we can't really use just that
cuz what's the square root of 3?
I don't know, right?
I'm not that smart, so therefore,
let's become that smart and
let's use the floor unit.
Let's assume that the array is
big enough to have a square root.
There we go, right, it's gonna be
effectively one for three, there we go.
So we now have our jump amount, the amount
we wanna jump, so what's the first step?
We use our first crystal ball
to see where does it break?
So I'll go like this,
let i equals jump amount.
We have a question.
>> Why suddenly square root and
not having like before?
>> Okay, yes, so
I did the worst case right here.
So here's why having doesn't work.
If you jump to your middle element and
your ball breaks, what does that mean?
Well that means you only have one left.
Therefore, you need to start
from a last known good position,
which is zero in this case and
walk to half of N.
Half of N walking half of
n is still linear time,
we want to improve linear time.
And so that's why it is better
to jump by a different amount.
So jumping by the square root
of N means that we will at most
walk square root of N.
Or in other words, the worst possible
case is square root of N amount of jumps
until we're off the array, go back square
root of N and walk square root of N.
That makes sense?
Whereas the worst case having is that
you have to walk half the array.
There we go, so
I is the amount we want to jump,
we're gonna start at the first
jump cuz it will make sense for
i has to be less than brakes length,
i plus equals jump amount.
There we go, and so now we just
simply try to wait until we break,
okay, so if breaks i then break,
oops I just replace that.
There we go,
now we do exactly what we said.
We find the point where it breaks,
we walk back,
we jump back square root of n,
then we walk forward square root of n.
So, i minus equals jump amount,
there we go, and
now we've just jumped
back square root of n.
Now we just simply need the walk
forward square root of n.
So for let j equals zero, j has to be less
than jump amount, and we'll go like this.
I have to be less than brakes length
just in case we walk off our board,
we don't wanna walk off our board.
And then we can just go plus plus j,
awesome.
So now we're gonna make sure we walk
maximum a jump amount of steps.
If , oop,
I forgot one thing, ++i], there we go.
If we find the breaking point there we go
we can literally just return it at this
point or we can return negative one, right
there you go that should be the answer.
I always get so
nervous about the wrong answer,
here we go, two,
I think that's all we have to type.
My goodness, it worked out again,
so there we go.
So here's the simple code, which again
we did it in the exact same steps.
I'm gonna jump over here, we first
walk by the square root of n jumping
square root of n at a time exact
same thing you see right here.
We set our initial jump point or our
initial point to the square root of n we
then check for breaks and
jumps square root of n.
We jump back a square root of n,
then we linearly walk forward at most,
a square root of n until we find a break.
At that point, we either return I at
this moment, which is the index in
which it breaks or we return -1,
hopefully that all makes sense.
It's a pretty fun algorithm to kind of
think of, I think it's a really kind of
a challenging one too cuz it just
changes kind of how you view it.
And you never know I was asked this
question maybe one day you guys
will get asked this question.
Likely not now that's on the internet
completely ruined it, but it's a fun one.
So I've already said I've had this one.
Look at that even did the binary
search and Google Docs,
it's shocking how many times you'll get
asked to do binary search at Google.
They just asked that question all the time
so come prepared, be ready all right.
All right so let's take a breath
you get it good pun I thought it
was good I think it's a great pun,
I'm sure there is a lot of questions.
This is a great stopping point for
any questions we can have at this moment.
>> Can we still cube root of n stuff?
Square root of n?
>> We could travel a cube root.
I wouldn't know what the running time of
that would be though, because that means
you'd also have to hop cube root of times
which is a higher amount of hopping.
Cube root-
>> Right.
>> Is smaller than the square root of n,
right?
>> It is smaller, so
your jumps become progressively smaller.
I don't actually know what that proof
would look like and
why it would be faster or
slower.
To me,
it seems like it'd be slower.
>> What if we
go more than square?
I'm just trying to figure out why we
have chosen square root of n.
>> Square root of n, or the square root of
n, it's just the only way we can change
this from nonlinear running, right?
Cuz if we use a binary search,
we still run into a linear problem.
If we jump by some portion of n,
we're still running linear.
We wanna get sub-linear,
we cannot get to log, but
if we just do a cube root as add
or a cube root.
If we just do a root then we get
the maximum on a jump right you get the
maximum amount of distance with a still
lower running time.
As you increase obviously your root level
the closer you get to a linear run, right?
So
if you do the quad route then you
get to the point where you're
practically jumping by one, right?
Then you do the next route
you are definitely jumping by one if not
by zero at that point right it's just like
becomes nothing.
So
it just I think it quickly approaches end.
>> Wishing their
college professor was you back in the day.
>> I know and still,
if this ever gets back to Montana
State University Brocklin Mears best
teacher ever.
I model everything after him he got
teacher of the Year Award once.
The man was writing on the he did Karnaugh
maps he did digital logic all that he
was writing on the board he was so
excited that when he tried
to write it launched out of
his hand.
And made it all the way across the room
and I was just I was sitting there like so
engaged going, this is
how I want all my professors to be, right?
I want them to feel like they like what
they're teaching.
And I like what I'm teaching.
So, I don't wanna,
I'm showing you how much
I like what I teach.